[Home](../) > [Curriculum](index.html) > DAT 129: Python 2

# DAT 129 - Python 2

Required for [A.S.](as_curriculum.md) and [Certificate](cert_curriculum.md)

**Credits:** 4 (Skills Lab Hours)

**Terms:** Fall and Spring

**Pre-requisites:** DAT 119

**Description:**

This course builds on the programming fundamentals acquired in Python 1 to manipulate and visualize data sourced not just from local flat files but also from remote API servers, scraped web pages and databases. Leverage the power of this portable, multi-purpose programming language to build robust scripts capable of recovering from data stream errors and data value anomalies. Emphasis is placed on writing well-documented code to support efficient team-based workflows. While object-oriented Python and simple graphical user interfaces (GUIs) are introduced, this course focuses primarily on writing scripts and creating visualizations with Python data container libraries.


**Learning Outcomes:**

Upon successful completion of the course, the student will:

1. Diagram data workflows which include processing by Python scripts as part of a larger pipeline of data sourced from remote computers and destined for external storage and presentation tools.
2. Assemble multi-leveled, dictionary-based data structures from heterogeneous sources.
3. Decode and encode data sets in flat files using Python and JavaScript Object Notation (JSON).
4. Acquire data from an Application Programming Interface (API) over multiple network requests.
5. Acquire data using Python’s web scraping libraries from Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) files acquired over a network.
6. Create simple relational databases using Python’s Structured Query Language (SQL) modules.
7. Demonstrate the ability to collaborate with peers to create Python programs using a version control system via the UNIX shell.
8. Create a static visualization of various types of data including univariate, multi-variate, time-series, textual and spatial.


**Listed Topics:**

1. Python
2. JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)
3. REST framework
4. Web technology basics: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and JavaScript
5. Application Programming Interfaces (APIs)
6. Web scraping
7. Data pipelines
8. Scripting versus class-based software design


**General Education Learning Goals:**

Critical Thinking & Problem Solving; Quantitative & Scientific Reasoning