[Home](../) > [Curriculum](index.html) > Python 1

# DAT 119 - Python 1

Required for [A.S.](as_curriculum.md) and [Certificate](cert_curriculum.md)

**Credits:** 4 (Skills Lab Hours)

**Terms:** Fall and Spring

**Pre-requisites:** CIT-100 or Instructor Permission

**Description:**

This course introduces computer programming and techniques using Python to solve problems in data analytics. Emphasis is placed on common data types, control flow, functions, usability and reproducibility utilizing the standard library distributed with Python and selected data visualization and analysis modules. Students learn to manipulate files, Python scripts and their output using the interactive Python terminal and shell commands.

**Learning Outcomes:**

Upon successful completion of the course, the student will:

1. Design an algorithmic solution to solve a problem.
2. Utilize scalar and container type variables, repetition structures, selection structures, standard library modules and built-in and user-defined functions in a Python program.
3. Write reusable code that meets program specifications and follows best practices for reproducible data workflows.
4. Implement file manipulation and execution of programs from a command line interface and within a Python program.

**Listed Topics:**
1. Introduction to computers and programming
2. Running Python code in Jupyter notebooks, an integrated development environment and the console
3. Variables, data types and arithmetic operators
4. Following a style guide
5. Decision structures and Boolean operators
6. Repetition structures
7. Functions and scope
8. Lists, tuples, dictionaries and sets
9. File input/output
10. NumPy, Pandas and Matplotlib


**General Education Learning Goals:**
Critical thinking & problem solving, Quantitative & scientific reasoning