[Home](../) > [Curriculum](index.html) > DAT 204: R for Analytics

# DAT 204 - R for Analytics

Required for [A.S.](as_curriculum.md) and [Certificate](cert_curriculum.md)

**Credits:** 3 (Skills Lab Hours)

**Terms:** Fall only [being offered in spring 2021 to help students make pre-reqs]

**Pre-requisites:** DAT-119 or demonstration of basic proficiency in any other programming language as verified by instructor 

## Description

This course guides students in the use of the R programming language for data analysis. After exploring the fundamentals of the R language and essential data structures, students learn to manipulate structured data in R in preparation for statistical analysis. Standard statistical data analysis techniques are implemented in R. In addition to mechanical fundamentals, this course is rooted in building skills in sound data analytical thinking: surveying data sets, generating compelling inquiry questions, conducting rigorous quantitative analysis, drawing conclusions rooted in reproducible findings and discussing the limitations of this analysis with a lay audience.

## Learning Outcomes

Upon successful completion of the course, the student will:
1. Execute essential operations in RStudio including loading and viewing structured data files, reading data into R objects and manipulating data.
2. Demonstrate an understanding of the basics in R programming in terms of constructs, control statements, functions and libraries.
3. Generate basic plots and descriptive statistics in R for structured data sets.
4. Implement an end-to-end data analysis process.
5. Write reusable code that meets program specifications and follows best practices for reproducible data workflows.
         

## Listed Topics

1. Integrated development environment
2. Structured data
3. Vectors
4. Objects
5. Arrays and matrices
6. Data frames
7. Functions
8. Regressions
9. Plots


## General Education Learning Goals

Critical Thinking & Problem Solving; Quantitative & Scientific Reasoning