[Home](../) > [Curriculum](index.html) > DAT 281: Project in Data Analytics

# DAT 281 - Project in Data Analytics

Required for [A.S.](as_curriculum.md) and [Certificate](cert_curriculum.md). [Occasionally, another project-based course or a practicum might be considered in place of DAT 281.]

**Credits:** 3 (Skills Lab Hours)

**Terms:** Spring only

**Pre-requisites:** DAT 129 or DAT 204

## Description

This course equips students with hands-on experience designing, implementing and sharing a data-based inquiry project. While fluency in computer-based number crunching remains an essential skill set of a data practitioner, project success also hinges on effective problem scoping with clients and thoughtful packaging of technical results for applicability in the client’s work context. To develop these supplemental project skills, this course invites students to experiment with a variety of qualitative research strategies for unearthing foundational client concerns from among peripheral organizational clutter.


## Learning Outcomes

Upon successful completion of the course, the student will:
1. Demonstrate the ability to discover foundational client concerns using qualitative research techniques such as semi-structured interviewing, workflow walkthroughs, focus groups and workplace observation.
2. Prepare a data research project plan aligned to client concerns for implementation by a workgroup.
3. Implement a data research project using an industry standard project management framework.
4. Present formally the results of a substantial research inquiry with the project client.
5. Evaluate the outcomes of a data research project against initial project aims in consultation with a client.
      

**Listed Topics:**

1. Project scoping
2. Qualitative research
3. Client interviewing
4. Project management framework
5. Project evaluation


**General Education Learning Goals:**

Critical Thinking & Problem Solving; Quantitative & Scientific Reasoning